.TH "Get some Topology Information" 3 "9 Oct 2009" "Version 0.9.1rc1" "Hardware Locality (hwloc)" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
Get some Topology Information \- 
.SS "Defines"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBHWLOC_TYPE_DEPTH_UNKNOWN\fP   -1"
.br
.RI "\fINo object of given type exists in the topology. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBHWLOC_TYPE_DEPTH_MULTIPLE\fP   -2"
.br
.RI "\fIObjects of given type exist at different depth in the topology. \fP"
.in -1c
.SS "Functions"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "unsigned \fBhwloc_topology_get_depth\fP (\fBhwloc_topology_t\fP restrict topology)"
.br
.RI "\fIGet the depth of the hierachical tree of objects. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBhwloc_get_type_depth\fP (\fBhwloc_topology_t\fP topology, \fBhwloc_obj_type_t\fP type)"
.br
.RI "\fIReturns the depth of objects of type \fCtype\fP. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBhwloc_obj_type_t\fP \fBhwloc_get_depth_type\fP (\fBhwloc_topology_t\fP topology, unsigned depth)"
.br
.RI "\fIReturns the type of objects at depth \fCdepth\fP. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "unsigned \fBhwloc_get_nbobjs_by_depth\fP (\fBhwloc_topology_t\fP topology, unsigned depth)"
.br
.RI "\fIReturns the width of level at depth \fCdepth\fP. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "static inline int \fBhwloc_get_nbobjs_by_type\fP (\fBhwloc_topology_t\fP topology, \fBhwloc_obj_type_t\fP type)"
.br
.RI "\fIReturns the width of level type \fCtype\fP. \fP"
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBhwloc_topology_is_thissystem\fP (\fBhwloc_topology_t\fP restrict topology)"
.br
.RI "\fIDoes the topology context come from this system? \fP"
.in -1c
.SH "Define Documentation"
.PP 
.SS "#define HWLOC_TYPE_DEPTH_MULTIPLE   -2"
.PP
Objects of given type exist at different depth in the topology. 
.PP
.SS "#define HWLOC_TYPE_DEPTH_UNKNOWN   -1"
.PP
No object of given type exists in the topology. 
.PP
.SH "Function Documentation"
.PP 
.SS "\fBhwloc_obj_type_t\fP hwloc_get_depth_type (\fBhwloc_topology_t\fP topology, unsigned depth)"
.PP
Returns the type of objects at depth \fCdepth\fP. 
.PP
.SS "unsigned hwloc_get_nbobjs_by_depth (\fBhwloc_topology_t\fP topology, unsigned depth)"
.PP
Returns the width of level at depth \fCdepth\fP. 
.PP
.SS "static inline int hwloc_get_nbobjs_by_type (\fBhwloc_topology_t\fP topology, \fBhwloc_obj_type_t\fP type)\fC [static]\fP"
.PP
Returns the width of level type \fCtype\fP. 
.PP
If no object for that type exists, 0 is returned. If there are several levels with objects of that type, -1 is returned. 
.SS "int hwloc_get_type_depth (\fBhwloc_topology_t\fP topology, \fBhwloc_obj_type_t\fP type)"
.PP
Returns the depth of objects of type \fCtype\fP. 
.PP
If no object of this type is present on the underlying architecture, or if the OS doesn't provide this kind of information, the function returns HWLOC_TYPE_DEPTH_UNKNOWN.
.PP
If type is absent but a similar type is acceptable, see also \fBhwloc_get_type_or_below_depth()\fP and \fBhwloc_get_type_or_above_depth()\fP. 
.SS "unsigned hwloc_topology_get_depth (\fBhwloc_topology_t\fP restrict topology)"
.PP
Get the depth of the hierachical tree of objects. 
.PP
This is the depth of HWLOC_OBJ_PROC objects plus one. 
.SS "int hwloc_topology_is_thissystem (\fBhwloc_topology_t\fP restrict topology)"
.PP
Does the topology context come from this system? 
.PP
\fBReturns:\fP
.RS 4
1 if this topology context was built using the system running this program. 
.PP
0 instead (for instance if using another file-system root, a XML topology file, or a synthetic topology). 
.RE
.PP

.SH "Author"
.PP 
Generated automatically by Doxygen for Hardware Locality (hwloc) from the source code.
