.TH "Topology Object Types" 3 "9 Oct 2009" "Version 0.9.1rc1" "Hardware Locality (hwloc)" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
Topology Object Types \- 
.SS "Defines"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "#define \fBHWLOC_TYPE_UNORDERED\fP   INT_MAX"
.br
.RI "\fIValue returned by hwloc_compare_types when types can not be compared. \fP"
.in -1c
.SS "Enumerations"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "enum \fBhwloc_obj_type_t\fP { \fBHWLOC_OBJ_SYSTEM\fP, \fBHWLOC_OBJ_MACHINE\fP, \fBHWLOC_OBJ_NODE\fP, \fBHWLOC_OBJ_SOCKET\fP, \fBHWLOC_OBJ_CACHE\fP, \fBHWLOC_OBJ_CORE\fP, \fBHWLOC_OBJ_PROC\fP, \fBHWLOC_OBJ_MISC\fP }"
.br
.RI "\fIType of topology object. \fP"
.in -1c
.SS "Functions"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "int \fBhwloc_compare_types\fP (\fBhwloc_obj_type_t\fP type1, \fBhwloc_obj_type_t\fP type2)"
.br
.RI "\fICompare the depth of two object types. \fP"
.in -1c
.SH "Define Documentation"
.PP 
.SS "#define HWLOC_TYPE_UNORDERED   INT_MAX"
.PP
Value returned by hwloc_compare_types when types can not be compared. 
.PP
.SH "Enumeration Type Documentation"
.PP 
.SS "enum \fBhwloc_obj_type_t\fP"
.PP
Type of topology object. 
.PP
\fBNote:\fP
.RS 4
Do not rely on the ordering or completeness of the values as new ones may be defined in the future! If you need to compare types, use \fBhwloc_compare_types()\fP instead. 
.RE
.PP

.PP
\fBEnumerator: \fP
.in +1c
.TP
\fB\fIHWLOC_OBJ_SYSTEM \fP\fP
Whole system (may be a cluster of machines). The whole system that is accessible to hwloc. That may comprise several machines in SSI systems like Kerrighed. 
.TP
\fB\fIHWLOC_OBJ_MACHINE \fP\fP
Machine. A set of processors and memory with cache coherency. 
.TP
\fB\fIHWLOC_OBJ_NODE \fP\fP
NUMA node. A set of processors around memory which the processors can directly access. 
.TP
\fB\fIHWLOC_OBJ_SOCKET \fP\fP
Socket, physical package, or chip. In the physical meaning, i.e. that you can add or remove physically. 
.TP
\fB\fIHWLOC_OBJ_CACHE \fP\fP
Data cache. Can be L1, L2, L3, ... 
.TP
\fB\fIHWLOC_OBJ_CORE \fP\fP
Core. A computation unit (may be shared by several logical processors). 
.TP
\fB\fIHWLOC_OBJ_PROC \fP\fP
(Logical) Processor. An execution unit (may share a core with some other logical processors, e.g. in the case of an SMT core). 
.PP
Objects of this kind are always reported and can thus be used as fallback when others are not. 
.TP
\fB\fIHWLOC_OBJ_MISC \fP\fP
Miscellaneous objects. Objects which do not fit in the above but are detected by hwloc and are useful to take into account for affinity. For instance, some OSes expose their arbitrary processors aggregation this way. 
.SH "Function Documentation"
.PP 
.SS "int hwloc_compare_types (\fBhwloc_obj_type_t\fP type1, \fBhwloc_obj_type_t\fP type2)"
.PP
Compare the depth of two object types. 
.PP
Types shouldn't be compared as they are, since newer ones may be added in the future. This function returns less than, equal to, or greater than zero if \fCtype1\fP is considered to be respectively higher than, equal to, or deeper than \fCtype2\fP in the hierarchy. If the types can not be compared (because it does not make sense), HWLOC_TYPE_UNORDERED is returned. Object types containing CPUs can always be compared.
.PP
\fBNote:\fP
.RS 4
HWLOC_OBJ_SYSTEM will always be the highest, and HWLOC_OBJ_PROC will always be the deepest. 
.RE
.PP

.SH "Author"
.PP 
Generated automatically by Doxygen for Hardware Locality (hwloc) from the source code.
